# Automatic-Weather-Monitoring-System
Automatic Weather Monitoring System aims to address the critical need for an automatic weather monitoring system for VishnuPrayag Hydroelectric Plant operated by JP Power Ventures. It issituated near the village of Mana, Uttarakhand which is known for its diverse geography and susceptibility to natural disasters such as floods and landslides. These variations in weather conditions need to be tracked and recorded for the maintenance and safe operation of the barrage of VishnuPrayag Power Plant.

Currently, the existing weather monitoring station at the plantoperates manually, providing data only up to the previous day and lacking real-time monitoringand predictive capabilities. Hence the primary objective of the project is to design and implement an Automatic Weather Monitoring System for VishnuPrayag Hydroelectric Plant leveraging IOT Technology and API Integration. Our circuit involves sensors like Gas Sensor FC-22 and BMP180, which are connected to WiFi enabled ESP8266 microcontroller.

The data fetched from this hardware is constantly stored and updated onto an Excel Sheet. To display the readingsand analyse the weather conditions, we have also developed a user-friendly website housing two
 distinct weather dashboards. It has an API-powered dashboard that fetches weather data using API calls. The user can also download this data in a csv file for their use. The other dashboard is specifically for the Power Plant personnel that displays the weather data fetched from IOT hardware. Only authenticated users can access the IOT dashboard. This platform aims toprovide a seamless interface for accessing comprehensive weather information specific to Mana,facilitating effective management of the VishnuPrayag Plant by JPVL during unforeseen natural circumstances.
